Integration levels

In some cases, integrating MyScript iink SDK can be as simple as configuring and adding a view to your application. However, it may sometimes call for a deeper integration. MyScript iink SDK offers this flexibility via the support of different integration levels.

Depending on the circumstances, MyScript iink SDK can be integrated at different levels:

    Code examples
    Platform-specific bindings
    Cross-platform or server APIs

Code examples

MyScript provides integrators with code examples to ease the integration of MyScript iink SDK.
This code is released under the permissive Apache 2 license. This lets you free to modify and integrate it into your own solutions without restrictive constraints.
Native platforms

The example code repositories (one per platform) provide useful examples illustrating some usages of the SDK that you can import into your own project. More importantly, it comes with a reference UI implementation for the target platform that consists in a set of classes that you can directly reuse to get a working base to build on.

All the code relies on platform-specific bindings, making it both easy to integrate into your project and to tune to your liking.
Web

Ready-to-use examples based on our iinkTS library expose samples that you can integrate in your project.
Platform bindings
Native platforms

MyScript iink SDK comes with platform-specific bindings for Android, iOS and Windows, which let you integrate the toolkit using the main programming language(s) of the target platform.

Bindings provide a flexible entry point and offer functionalities you may require. For example, you may need to tune the provided UI reference implementation or even develop a new one. The latter could be useful if you have specific requirements, such as a particular graphical toolkit or performance optimization specific to your use case.
Web

MyScript iink SDK is supported by the iinkTS library that you can directly use or tune for more flexibility.
Just like the code examples and the UI reference implementation, iinkTS is released under the permissive Apache 2 license. This lets you free to modify and integrate it into your own solutions without restrictive constraints.
Cross-platform/server APIs
Native platforms

MyScript iink SDK comes with a cross-platform C++ API (only available on demand) that supports a wide range of platforms.

As a generic, non-graphical API, it is flexible when it comes to cross-platform development, but you may need more efforts in some cases to develop the different UI parts.
Web

The Web platforms provides low-level WebSocket and REST APIs that can be used to integrate Interactive Ink into native or web applications alike.
MyScript does not necessarily recommend the WebSocket API to all integrators, as it requires significant work, e.g. to parse the SVG deltas to apply for the rendering.
